---
layout: post
title: Windows 10
date: 2015-08-09 21:52:54
---
I really like Windows 10. I'm just not going to use it for a while. I knew the July release date was far too early to really have a stable, solid OS, but I had high hopes anyway. I upgraded the day it was released, after running the Developer, Tech, and Insider previews on my secondary PC for a while, and all went smoothly for a while. Well, everything but the video drivers, mouse driver, default program settings, and 80% of my games, all of those failed miserably.

Nvidia put out a few more driver updates since the initial OS release, but I still can't get more than 30 minutes in GTA before the drivers take down the OS and I have to force reboot. It was a bit annoying after spending $650 on a GTX 980 to not be able to use the card. My Razer drivers worked about 70% of the time, but the initial startup time (which is already horrible, if possible buy a non-Synapse 2.0 Razer mouse, because the new software is *garbage*) was much worse than on 8.1.

Luckily, Microsoft left in a simple, 3-5 minute process to downgrade back to Windows 8.1. The PC Settings app has an option under Recovery in the updates section to revert to your previous version, and at least for me it worked wonderfully. Unlike the several hour upgrade time to go from 8.1 to 10, the downgrade took under 5 minutes and everything has worked perfectly since then.

I'll likely upgrade to Windows 10 again at some point, but for now I'll stick with an OS that doesn't die on my several times a day.
